# JPACRUDProject

## Description
This project entails the creation of a Spring Boot Project, and use of a database using MySQL Workbench. When entering the home page, the user is met with a series of options in the NavBar which are a Home page, Display all Cards, Update a Card, Delete a Card, and Create a Card, or CRUD. Also, an option on the homepage to find a One Piece card by inputting a card number. If the user wishes to see all the cards available, then they can click the Display All Cards in the NavBar. By clicking an option, the program will the use a Controller class to route the request to the appropriate JSP page to display, or input any required information. The Controllers in the controller class maps a path for each function of deleting, updating, or creating a card. By calling on the methods that meet the functions of what the user wants, the results are then displayed to the user in a different page. For example, if the user wished to create a card, then the controller would route a path to a form page where the user has a series of forms to fill out. Once filled out and submitted, another controller method would create a path to the second display page that the user will also see. This project interacts with a database I created with MySQL Workbench and store locally in order to accomplish these tasks.
## Technologies Used
MySQL Workbench, Java, HTML, CSS, Spring Boot
## Lessons Learned
1. I have learned to be wary of SQL reserved words, as simple as that may sound, it can cause many erros while using a column name that also represents what one may be describing. Avoiding such simple errors, will allow for a project to move along smoother with avoidable mistakes. 
2. It is easier to understand the flow of an option chosen by a user online being mapped to a controller, and then to a JSP. If multimple JSPS are needed, then another controller method can be created to reroute to that page. 
3. Furthermore, I have learned using exceptions and reading what the console output is saying is very beneficial. It is easier to fix a bug when we know what it describes. However, using test cases help in minimizing any such errors in the first place. 
4. Another thing I have learned is how to create a table using MySQL Workbench. By creating a table and storing data in it, I can then create a java project to interact with it in many ways. 
5. Lastly, it is crucial to test as you write code in order to avoid a debugging scenario at the very end. By understanding what is being output step by step, one can fix the mistake as it happens rather than putting it off. Also, it is good practice to take notice of any mental blockers and find a solution to navigate around said blockers.
